# Exploration IG Telecon, 2025-06-25

* Moderator: Heather Flanagan  
* Scribe: Peter Rushforth

Call-in details: see [https://www.w3.org/groups/ig/exploration/calendar/](https://www.w3.org/groups/ig/exploration/calendar/)

Charter: see [https://www.w3.org/2025/04/exploration-ig-charter.html](https://www.w3.org/2025/04/exploration-ig-charter.html)

## Agenda

1. Administrivia (2 minutes)  
   * Scribe volunteers? Peter  
   * [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/) reminder  
2. Quick review: group mission and objectives (5 minutes)  
3. Participant introductions (5 minutes roundtable)  
4. Presentation on Digital Credentials issues ([\#1](https://github.com/w3c/exploration-ig/issues/1),[\#2](https://github.com/w3c/exploration-ig/issues/2), [\#3](https://github.com/w3c/exploration-ig/issues/3)) \- Mitchell Nguyen (15 minutes)  
   * followed by open discussion (20 minutes)  
5. Group meeting at TPAC 2025 (5 minutes)  
6. Future meetings (5 minutes)  
7. AOB

## Notes 

The following notes were taken by Xueyuan Jia, and merged with [the minutes](https://www.w3.org/2025/06/25-exploration-ig-minutes.html) taken by Peter.

**Heather Flanagan**: This is the first meeting of the Exploration IG. Reminder of W3C [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/). The Exploration IG is where people can discuss ideas that W3C might want to work on but perhaps are not being covered already. 

**Philippe Le Hegaret (PLH)**: I am responsible for the technical strategy in W3C, and always welcome questions.

### Presentation on Digital Credentials issues and open discussion

**Mitchell Nguyen**: I'm the founder and CEO of WebBadge, a networking platform connecting trustworthy things for people, businesses and machines to easily verify. WebBadge is a social network without the social and I believe we have similar values and vision for the web. I submitted three proposals. 

Proposal \#1:[Digital credentials versioning and compatibility for an interoperable web](https://github.com/w3c/exploration-ig/issues/1%20) 

The proposal explores digital credentials ( (Open Badges 1.0-3.0, CLRs 1.0-2.0, W3C Verifiable Credentials 1.0-2.0, OID4VC, mDLs, etc.) versioning and interoperability challenges across the web. Having different formats for text / documents, how can we make the interoperable concept apply to verifiable credentials?

**Heather Flanagan**:  What do you mean by versioning? So this would signify the protocol, plus the information / evidence that would go into the credentials. 

**Mitchell Nguyen**: Versioning is like classes. You can see open badges have version 1.0-3.0. Someone wants to use or to translate it to something else, like a W3C verifiable credential. So it’s the version of the protocol not the version of the credential itself. How to make it interoperable? With so many different types of credentials, how can we unify them to make them easier for the end users? E.g., Companies A and B, want to serve their users.

**Philippe Le Hegaret (PLH)**: Thank you. This is a hard problem. First, you have different types of requirements for different types of credentials. The level of requirements varies widely. Humans prefer simplicity when it comes down to picking solutions. Good news is that governments are working on identity formats. Heather is working on the Digital Credential API (DC API). Coming up with a new format will not solve the problem. Interop is a problem. Market must provide solutions.

Another thing is UNC Fact has been working on a repository for vocabularies using digital credentials. One would think that it should be possible to do a mapping independently of the format being used, and we should try to aim to do a mapping.  Decryption, signature are challenges to go between formats.

**Heather Flanagan**: We have spoken about whether useful to have API that knows about types of credential being passed. That's almost a problem for a W3C WG, something that needs to be embedded in the credential's definition. There's no abstraction layer that could handle this. Would have to …

There is a conference next week in Geneva: [OpenWeb Foundation: Global Digital Collaboration Conference](https://globaldigitalcollaboration.org/) .

**Heather Flanagan**: Where should the mapping happen?

**Philippe Le Hegaret (PLH)**: My reaction was we should try to ensure mapping of formats; don't know what the use cases are for open badges. UNC Facts have been maintaining a set of vocabularies using digital credentials (link @@). IETF started to work on verifiable credentials. Many people working on those formats are active in various organizations. From a W3C perspective, I would like to focus on the web, but people are always welcome to contribute. 

(T: \+1 to focusing on use-cases)

**Heather Flanagan**: Checking on the DC API work to see how that goes, if/how they are planning to indicate what the version of credentials they are supporting might be useful.

**Philippe Le Hegaret (PLH):** The [Credentials CG](https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/) is currently working on various problems. Mapping is not a priority for a lot of folks and the market is not mature enough to do it.

**Mitchell Nguyen**: proposal \#2 [Digital credentials for granting authority (authorization)](https://github.com/w3c/exploration-ig/issues/2) 

This proposal explores using digital credentials for granting authority (authorization), aiming to simplify authorization methods such as designation, delegation, and assignment, especially for web users, and to foster coordination among implementers. 

Delegation is a big issue and complex esp with non-human identities. Authorization is getting difficult. Let's say you have a master key that opens 2 doors.  The key is authorized to open 2 doors.  By associating a single key to a door, you remove authorization.  More keys, but simpler.

**Heather Flanagan**: I was in a conversation about delegation and authorization. We came up with several different places where this work is already underway. OpenID is working in this space: OpenID Connect efforts, Validation issues. The AI Identity Management Community Group is trying to identify gaps. This is being talked about in the IETF OAuth group.  The approach used is different; not so much credentials issue as how to get info accurate. 

**Heather Flanagan:** 

* The OpenID Foundation: “The [eKYC and Identity Assurance (eKYC & IDA) WG](https://openid.net/wg/ekyc-ida/) is developing extensions to OpenID Connect that will standardise the communication of assured identity information, i.e. verified claims and information about how the verification was done and how the respective claims are maintained.”  
* The OpenID Foundation: “The [Death and the Digital Estate Community Group](https://openid.net/cg/death-and-the-digital-estate/) (DADE CG) enables interested parties to develop the use cases that support an individual’s right to choose what happens to their digital data upon their death or disablement.”  
* The OpenID Foundation: “[Artificial Intelligence Identity Management Community Group](https://openid.net/cg/artificial-intelligence-identity-management-community-group/). This CG provides a safe space to assess use cases, modularization (role, scope, outcomes), existing and emerging AI architectures, progress CG and whitepaper recommendations, develop liaisons, and mature other AI community partners as appropriate.”  
* The IETF: Identity Assertion Authorization Grant draft, [draft-parecki-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-parecki-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant/).

**Philippe Le Hegaret (PLH)**: \[question on how it relates to FedCM\]

**Heather Flanagan**: FedCM is looking towards more like a smarter discovery service. It's relationship management between actors in system. That's not authorization at all. Authentication and authorization flow, but is the relationship where info can be trusted and shared.

**Philippe Le Hegaret (PLH):** get a password, use it in another context. Point of delegation has been a real thing.

**Heather Flanagan**: I am not sure what you propose works for the full range of use cases, i.e. non-human to whatever. Does it make sense to work on one small use case?

**Tantek Çelik**: I'm wondering how much it's worth on a meta level. We can determine quickly if there is an existing group (CG or WG) already chartered with a problem that's been brought, and then delegate or transfer the issue/discussion to that existing group rather than deep dive into it in the Exploration IG.

On a second point, I agree with PLH’s questions about what problem you are solving. Perhaps we can modify the issue template for the IG to have right there at the top, “What user problem are you solving?” so that the Exploration IG can more effectively determine whether a problem area is covered by an existing CG/WG scope / efforts, or is it a novel/new problem that needs exploration.

**Mitchell Nguyen**: proposal \#3 [Evolving the web for humans and non-humans (IoTs, NHIs, AI Agents, etc.) with digital credentials](https://github.com/w3c/exploration-ig/issues/3%20)

This is the biggest of the three proposals. The proposal is evolving the web for humans and non-humans (IoTs, NHIs, AI Agents, etc.) with digital credentials. Given that we have digital credentials, privacy regulations, how do we combine all that?

**Heather Flanagan**: It sounds like a governance instead of a standard problem. 

**Mitchell Nguyen**: How to combine these technologies together, from a startup's perspective, come up with an actual product that incorporates.

**Philippe Le Hegaret (PLH)**: Putting things together that need to be dealt with separately… We have been conducting a series of workshops: [Authentic Web workshop](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-new-work/2025Feb/0007.html), [AI Agent workshop](https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/507). Identity of AI agents could be part of the scope, not just polymorphic identity.  No conclusion there, but workshopping it.

We’ve seen two proposals emerging: [C2PA](https://c2pa.org/), [Originator Profile](https://originator-profile.org/en-US/). Authentic Web workshop will have this conversation. For AI agents, the market is a moving target, Google, MS et al; I haven't looked to see if Identity is part of that. There’s another proposal called [ANP](https://w3c-cg.github.io/ai-agent-protocol/) based on W3C verifiable credentials (VC).

**Heather Flanagan:** market needs to settle before it gets into a government space. small business

**Tantek Çelik**:  smaller players \-\> workshop on AI Agents. This sounds like it could be a worthy topic for a paper for the workshop. There's also the [Credible Web Community Group](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/credibility/) with a CredWeb Slack channel.

**Philippe Le Hegaret (PLH)**: I wanted to mention another joint W3C & IETF workshop [Child Safety on the Web](https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/505). That use case of edge verification is an important and pressing use case in the space of digital identity. We will send an advance notice to the membership (no date yet, location might be in London).  Interest is there, but it’s a moving target. Depending on usage we will have a different answer.

**Heather Flanagan:** This IG's role includes gathering input from issue submitters, which we've done through this discussion.  Mitchell, I hope you now have some direction on ongoing work and next steps. 

### Group meeting at TPAC 2025

**Heather Flanagan:** We will have our group meeting at TPAC 2025 to have all the interested parties in the room with the right information.

###  Future group meetings

**Heather Flanagan:** We haven’t scheduled regular group calls yet—it depends on submissions and whether there’s enough to discuss.  I wanted to hold this call first to gauge how they’d work.  There’s one more issue in our queue, and we will get to it. The next call is largely driven by issues submitted and the submitter’s schedule.

**Tantek Çelik**: Regarding all the mentions/discussions of interoperability, we have a wiki page on that topic [https://www.w3.org/wiki/Interoperable](https://www.w3.org/wiki/Interoperable) part of the Advisory Board’s [3Is project](https://www.w3.org/wiki/AB/2024_Priorities#Interoperability_and_the_Role_of_Independent_Implementations).

## Attendance

* Heather Flanagan, Spherical Cow Consulting (Chair)  
* Philippe Le Hegaret, W3C (PLH)  
* Peter Rushforth, Natural Resources Canada  
* Mitchell Nguyen, WebBadge  
* Xueyuan Jia, W3C  
* Tantek Çelik (T and [https://tantek.com/](https://tantek.com/) ), Mozilla

Currently open channel:   
\#exploration-ig  
Minutes from IRC: [https://www.w3.org/2025/06/25-exploration-ig-minutes.html](https://www.w3.org/2025/06/25-exploration-ig-minutes.html)  
Agenda: [https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/fd4c92ad-f019-43f6-a621-4276ec3a7dc8/\#agenda](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/fd4c92ad-f019-43f6-a621-4276ec3a7dc8/#agenda)